---
layout: page
title: Forums for questions
parent: How to
nav_order: 12
has_toc: false
---

# Create Forums to Ask Questions

When designing forums for researchers to ask questions at a Data Help Desk,
several key factors need careful consideration, as highlighted by the sources.
These include where researchers will be during the event and their comfort level
in asking questions, as well as the logistical challenges of monitoring multiple
question channels and avoiding overwhelming volunteers.

The sources emphasize the need to think about the researchers' context during
the event. For instance, at a physical conference, researchers might be walking
through the exhibit hall or attending sessions. Placing the Data Help Desk in a
central location with high visibility, such as the Exhibit Hall, can increase
awareness and accessibility. However, a location outside the main bustle might
be preferable in some cases. For virtual events, considerations shift to the
digital platforms being used for the meeting. A presence within the main virtual
platform can boost visibility but might create another space for volunteers to
monitor.

The comfort level of researchers when asking questions is also crucial. Some
researchers might prefer public platforms, while others may feel more at ease
with private or anonymous options. The sources mention different approaches
taken in the past:

-   Public Forums (e.g., Twitter): Using a dedicated hashtag like #DataHelpDesk
    allows researchers to ask questions publicly. This can create a buzz and
    facilitate broader visibility of questions and answers. However, not all
    researchers may be comfortable using Twitter or have an account.
-   Private Forums (e.g., Survey Forms): Providing a survey form allows
    researchers to submit questions more anonymously and is a good alternative
    for those without Twitter. Past forms have included fields for the question,
    optional name and Twitter handle, required email, and optional career stage.
-   In-Person Interactions: For physical desks, direct conversations with
    experts are a primary mode of asking questions. Volunteers should be
    approachable, show interest, listen carefully, and clarify the question to
    understand the user's true need.

A significant concern raised across the sources is the need to balance the
number of question channels with the capacity of volunteers to monitor and
respond effectively. Creating too many places for questions can overwhelm
volunteers and lead to some inquiries being missed. The sources suggest opting
for a limited number of well-managed channels. In the past, a combination of one
public (Twitter) and one more private (survey form) option has been used.

To support volunteers in managing questions from various channels, the sources
mention the use of a backchannel communication platform like a Slack channel.
This allows experts to discuss questions, triage them, and coordinate responses,
especially for volunteers who are less comfortable with public-facing platforms
like Twitter. A moderator can then relay answers from the Slack channel back to
the researcher on the original platform (e.g., Twitter).

Considering the format of the event (physical, virtual, or hybrid) influences
the choice of question forums. Hybrid events necessitate planning and
coordination for both physical and virtual components.

In summary, designing effective question forums for a Data Help Desk requires a
thoughtful approach that considers the researchers' likely locations and
preferences for asking questions, while also ensuring that the chosen methods
are manageable for the volunteer team. Balancing accessibility with the capacity
to provide timely and helpful responses is key to a successful Data Help Desk.
