---
layout: page
title: People needed
parent: Planning a data help desk
nav_order: 4
has_toc: false
---

# People needed

## Data help desk organizing committee

**Form Organizing Committee:** 5-10 key individuals committed to success of
event

**Convene Organizing Committee:** to agree on general plan for the event

Dedication of a core group of organizers, who meet regularly for planning and
advertising purposes, is essential.

If the meeting the Data Help Desk is associated with has a certain domain focus,
it is best to engage a group of organizers who are experts in that area.

## Contacts with associated sponsors & conference hosts

Established and active relationship with key contacts at the organization
hosting the meeting.

For example, a good relationship with key personnel at AGU along with clear and
common goals has helped us in all aspects of planning, executing, and maximizing
the impact of each event we hold together at an AGU Fall Meeting.

Engaging With the Meeting Host & Other Organizers Very early on in the planning
process,

**Clarify roles**

it is important to clarify with all major sponsors (whether in-kind or
otherwise), the meeting host organization, and other contributing organizations
what their respective roles will be.

## Staffing Key Tasks/Roles required

The size of an event, including the number of volunteers, anticipated
attendance, and length of event, should determine how many individuals are
needed to perform key tasks.

These do not all have to be done by different people, but are somewhat discrete
tasks:

● Data Help Desk Designer:

an individual who is responsible for the overarching vision of each event in
collaboration with a small dedicated organizing committee composed of
representatives from all major organizing entities. Serves in all other roles
below or delegates them to other individuals.

● Meeting Host Liaison:

an individual who works especially close with the meeting host team to promote
the virtual event on the meeting website, in the meeting program, and in regular
communications about the event. The Meeting Host Liaison will also explore and
pursue additional ways to increase the visibility of the event in collaboration
with the meeting host team, including blog posts, social media promotion, and
more. For hybrid events, this role is particularly critical, as it will be
important to coordinate not just a virtual presence, but also to

● Expert Volunteer:

an individual who volunteers to:

a) monitor questions asked during a Data Help Desk and provide responses; and/or

b) share resources related to making data and/or software more open and FAIR.

● Volunteer Coordinator:

an individual who manages the process of recruiting and supporting expert
volunteers by providing guidance on how to contribute and other support before
and during the Data Help Desk.

● Question Referrer:

an individual who monitors BlueSky and any other platforms where researchers may
contribute questions, who quickly refers these questions to experts who may be
able to address the queries.

This could mean sharing a question asked in Twitter on a Slack channel or
retweeting and tagging an expert or even referring the researcher to a specific
person via email.

The Question Referrer’s job is to make sure that all questions are addressed in
some way.

● Website Manager:

an individual who manages the main event website, including the event
description, sponsor/organizer acknowledgement, and information on how to
participate, along with the gallery of contributed resources.

● BlueSky communicator: an individual who develops and implements a BlueSky plan
for the event.

This includes advertising the event ahead of time and tweeting individual
resources during the event using hashtags and other mechanisms to maximize
visibility and impact.

Works with the Question Referrer to ensure that all questions asked on BlueSky
using the hashtag #DataHelpDesk are addressed.

● Workshop Coordinator:

an individual who develops and coordinates any workshops or more in-depth side
events happening in conjunction with the Data Help Desk on broad topics like how
to create a data management plan, how to cite datasets, code, and software, and
how to find an appropriate data repository.

The most challenging aspect of this role is finding the right presenters for
these workshops, those who have the right expertise and who are willing to
devote the time to leading and drawing a sizable crowd.

## People to advertise data desk

communication plan both prior to and during the event for advertising

Presence on main meeting website and, if possible, mention of the event in any
daily emails sent to meeting participants

## Volunteers and Experts should share science expertise

**During the event:**

find commonalities with researchers (users of the data desk) – sharing not just
informatics, but also science expertise of volunteers is important for
establishing trust and starting conversations.

**After the event:**

talk via email, slack channel

**What kind of expertise?**

How to analyze data?

familiarity with specific datasets or domain knowledge?

How to visualize data?

How to find relevant data?

**Volunteer/experts knowledge communication**

Experts should not talk down to researchers, but instead explain how they came
to understand why, for example, it’s important to have sound data management
practices.

## Volunteers

Organizers decide on key topics and specific resources (from their own
organizations even) that they would like to see featured. For smaller events, it
may be best to hand-pick a set of volunteers, as working with experts prior to
the event is often one of the most

time-consuming (and rewarding) tasks associated with a Data Help Desk.

You can also share a volunteer form (e.g., Google Form) with relevant mailing
lists to solicit volunteers. Past volunteers should also be invited.

○ Volunteer to be a Data or Software Expert for the upcoming Virtual Data (and
software) Help Desk, to be hosted during #vEGU21 Meeting (19-30 April 2021).

This event, which is a program of the Earth Science Information Partners (ESIP),
EGU, and AGU, connects researchers with informatics experts familiar with their
scientific domain to learn about skills and techniques that will help further
their research and make their data and software open and FAIR. You can volunteer
to take part in one or more of the following ways:

■ Answer data (and software) questions (monitor platform and answer where you
can)

■ Share a recorded demo (share a brief recorded demo of a tool or resource,
ideally <5 min)

■ Share a one-pager about your tool or resource

To volunteer, please complete this brief form \[link to the form\], as soon as
possible

Don't miss this chance to help others with

data-related questions and to demo your tool or platform! Questions?

Contact DataHelpDesk. We ask data experts to monitor the #DataHelpDesk Twitter
stream and

reply directly to any questions they see there via their own Twitter account.

## People to engage users via social media

As a platform that is increasingly becoming popular amongst researchers, Twitter
is a great place to create a buzz and host discussion during the Virtual Data
Help Desk events. Generating a robust plan, including a schedule of tweets to
advertise that the event is happening, along with example questions, and
featured resources is key. The use of scheduling software like Tweetdeck or
Buffer can be extremely helpful. Having key hashtags that are used in each Tweet
is important.

At a minimum, these have so far been #DataHelpDesk and the hashtag for the
associated

conference (e.g., #AGU21). At some point, it may be better to have a main
Twitter account

associated with the event, so that hashtags cannot be confused with or
commandeered to

promote other activities and resources. This account would need to be a shared
resource amongst all Data Help Desk organizers.

Having a twitter plan that includes numerous tweets each day drawing attention
both to the broader event and to specific topics & resources can help with this.
Tweets (and retweets) coming from numerous people and organizations using
#DataHelpDesk can be very effective and help show that the Data Help Desk is a
truly collaborative effort. Having a contact at the meeting host organization
(AGU, EGU, etc.) who is willing to retweet anything you send out can also help
reach more people.
