---
layout: page
title: Desk atmosphere
parent: Things to Consider
nav_order: 2
has_toc: false
---

# Create an Atmosphere to Ask Questions

A Data Help Desk requires a thoughtful approach that considers the researchers'
likely locations and preferences for asking questions, while also ensuring that
the chosen methods are manageable for the volunteer team. Balancing
accessibility with the capacity to provide timely and helpful responses is key
to a successful Data Help Desk.

When designing forums for researchers to ask questions at a Data Help Desk,
several key factors need careful consideration. These include where researchers
will be during the event and their comfort level in asking questions, as well as
the logistical challenges of monitoring multiple question channels and avoiding
overwhelming volunteers.

Think about the researchers' context during the event. For instance, at a
physical conference, researchers might be walking through the exhibit hall or
attending sessions. Placing the Data Help Desk in a central location with high
visibility, such as the Exhibit Hall, can increase awareness and accessibility.
However, a location outside the main bustle might be preferable in some cases.
For virtual events, considerations shift to the digital platforms being used for
the meeting. A presence within the main virtual platform can boost visibility
but might create another space for volunteers to monitor.

The comfort level of researchers when asking questions is also crucial. Some
researchers might prefer public platforms, while others may feel more at ease
with private or anonymous options. Several different approaches were taken in
the past:

-   Public Forums (e.g., Twitter): Using a dedicated hashtag like #DataHelpDesk
    allows researchers to ask questions publicly. This can create a buzz and
    facilitate broader visibility of questions and answers. However, not all
    researchers may be comfortable using Twitter or have an account.

-   Private Forums (e.g., Survey Forms): Providing a survey form allows
    researchers to submit questions more anonymously and is a good alternative
    for those without Twitter. Past forms have included fields for the question,
    optional name and Twitter handle, required email, and optional career stage.
